 By Nathan TregillusMany have argued about whether or not we have landed on the moon. With stories and shows, such as Fox Entertainment’s special Conspiracy Theory: Did We Land on the Moon, it is easy to see why some do not believe NASA’s explorations to that far off glowing planetoid we call the moon. Listed below are some websites I have compiled to discuss this theory, both agreeing with NASA, and those opposing it.http://www.apfn.org/apfn/moon.htmWas Moon Landing Faked? For HoaxThrough out this page, the author links back to Ralph Rene, author of “Mooning America.” Listing things like “How can the flag be fluttering?” and “why would the photos be faked whether or not we went to the moon?” give a disturbing accusation against NASA.Listed in a single page, photos and their descriptions for deception are shown.  But after these, are emails to the author, trying to answer questions given at the end of the page author’s section. All in all, the page is more for the conspiracy than for the debunking of the theory.http://web.archive.org/web/20010302021630/thepeoplesrevolution.tripod.com/moonlanding.htmWhy America Never Landed on the Moon: For HoaxShort, but to the point, the page lists 4 major points used by most conspiracy theorists:1. Why would a fake be plausible (why would faking the moon landing would be more plausible than actually going there)2. Pictures looked faked. NASA never negated or made excuses for these claims.3. Radio transmit ions MUST have been faked because in all recordings of the radio transmissions have no 2 second pauses, in which radio transmissions should have taken to get to the moon.4. Radiation should have fried the astronauts in their Lander like over sized microwave.http://web.archive.org/web/20010302021630/thepeoplesrevolution.tripod.com/moonlanding.htmWhy America Never Landed on the Moon: For HoaxShort, but to the point, the page lists 4 major points used by most conspiracy theorists:5. Why would a fake be plausible (why would faking the moon landing would be more plausible than actually going there)6. Pictures looked faked. NASA never negated or made excuses for these claims.7. Radio transmit ions MUST have been faked because in all recordings of the radio transmissions have no 2 second pauses, in which radio transmissions should have taken to get to the moon.8. Radiation should have fried the astronauts in their Lander like over sized microwave.http://www.apfn.org/apfn/moon.htmWas Moon Landing Faked? For HoaxThrough out this page, the author links back to Ralph Rene, author of “Mooning America.” Listing things like “How can the flag be fluttering?” and “why would the photos be faked whether or not we went to the moon?” give a disturbing accusation against NASA.Listed in a single page, single photos and their descriptions for deception are shown.  But after these, are emails to the author, trying to answer questions given at the end of the page author’s section. All in all, the page is more for the conspiracy than for the debunking of the theory.http://www.recrea.f9.co.uk/papermoon.htmInvestigator Challenging NASA: For HoaxThis page also lists a link to Ralph Rene’s paper, but basis more accusations from his own investigations. Jim Collier, the page’s author, describes his exploits. One of which was a call on a radio show by a man trying to explain the feather & hammer test (though the page is obviously trying to make more of a point of destroying the man’s credibility than argue the point).The page, using Colliers story, goes over photo discrepancies, atmospheric manipulation of light on the moon, cover ups on the Moon Lander’s designs (lost), and other mysterious circumstances.http://www.moonmovie.com/ A Funny Thing happened On The Way To The Moon For HoaxThis is a unique sight, because they state they have footage filmed by Buzz Aldrin falsifying photos 31 days into their moon trip. Another specific “fact” they bring to the table is the radiation fields that surround the earth which would fry the astronauts in their ship heading to the moon. Using videos and pictures, this page describes the most exotic evidence yet.http://www.fact-index.com/a/ap/apollo_moon_landing_hoax_accusations.htmlApollo moon landing hoax accusations For HoaxThis is the only page which describes the accusations that the disbelievers bring to the table, but looks at them with only a critical eye. There are no facts or positions listed against the hoax idea, but there are a few new “confusing facts” which are listed, such as a “secret approach” to Stanley Kubrick, director of 2001: A Space Odyssey to direct the faked moon footage. 	Stanley Kubrick was supposedly enticed with access to alien artifacts, and area 51, and then threatened with the threat of publicly announcing that his brother was a communist. Some more new theory was the idea that NASA had a few people killed to silence them. Here is a few listed:Ed Givens (car accident) • Ted Freeman (T-38 crash) • C. C. Williams (T-38 accident) • Elliot See and Charlie Bassett (T-38 accident) • Virgil "Gus" Grissom (an outspoken critic of the Space Program) (Apollo 1 fire) • Ed White (Apollo 1 fire) • Roger Chaffee (Apollo 1 fire) • X-15 pilot Mike Adams (the only X-15 pilot killed during the X-15 flight test program - not a NASA astronaut, but had flown X-15 above 50 miles). • Robert Lawrence scheduled to be an Air Force Manned Orbiting Laboratory pilot who died in a jet crash shortly after reporting for duty to that (later cancelled) program.http://www.clavius.org/gravdust.htmlMoon Landing Conspiracy: DebunkThought the listed pages, the author lists the Conspiracy theorist’s “facts” and goes through the logical steps which answer their mistrust, describing reasons for mysterious circumstances used to discredit the moon landing.The first page goes over the general improbability of the 3 major theories, of; all NASA employees and contractors were invested in the faking of the Moon landing, only the top NASA employees, and the astronauts know of scam, or the possibility of a situation between these probabilities. After this listing, most of the biggest evidence used against NASA is discredited, from dust clouds being improbable, to solar flairs being removed from photos.http://www.badastronomy.com/bad/tv/foxapollo.htmlFox TV and the Apollo Moon Hoax: DebunkCreated solely to correct assumptions and falsehoods given in the Fox entertainment special “Conspiracy Theory: Did We Land on the Moon?” Phil Plait's web page, called The Bad Astronomer, sets Fox straight. With a great list of the TV show's arguments; a link to each is given to easily navigate to Phil's simple but hard nock responses to the Fox allegations.New angles covered in this page include:• Why the flag stands out like it was waving• How the Lander coped with changes in center of gravity• Non-parallel shadows• Many, many, MANY othershttp://www.braeunig.us/space/hoax.htm A Debunking of the Moon Hoax Theory: DebunkA page listed to deflate the Fox Entertainment Moon Hoax hour special. While listing some repeating information from many other sites, this site discredits the accusation about photo film which should have melted on the surface of the moon. They describe the special contract NASA had with Kodak for developing a film which would only melt under 500+ degree tempters. It also describes how heat transfer is completely different in space, and how, while the sun is shining WAY hotter than on earth, that heat can only be transferred through the materials thehttp://www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m2843/is_3_25/ai_74523973 	Fox Special Questions Moon Landing But Not Its Own Credulities: DebunkThis article is from the magazine Skeptical Inquirer. This magazine describes it self as the “scientific community’s views on paranormal occurrences in a non-sensationalist tone.” In this article, the author, James Scotti, attacks the fox special’s credibility, and its choice in sources. At the end of the article, he lists the fox specials main claims and lists their flaws. Most of these have been exposed by most, which make Scotti’s seem more plausible.http://www.redzero.demon.co.uk/moonhoax/Moon Hoax: DebunkAs the most exhaustive site I found, you can find a link to discredit almost every accusation against NASA’s moon landings. Some of the things described in this page included: reasons space satellites can’t check the moon for us to end the debate, why we haven’t gone back, why there wasn’t a crater under the LEM when it landed, and many other good questions.http://www.clavius.org/gravdust.htmlMoon Landing Conspiracy: DebunkThought the listed pages, the author lists the Conspiracy theorist’s “facts” and goes through the logical steps which answer their mistrust, describing reasons for mysterious circumstances used to discredit the moon landing.The first page goes over the general improbability of the 3 major theories, of; all NASA employees and contractors were invested in the faking of the Moon landing, only the top NASA employees, and the astronauts know of scam, or the possibility of a situation between these probabilities. After this listing, most of the biggest evidence used against NASA is discredited, from dust clouds being improbable, to solar flairs being removed from photos.http://www.lunaranomalies.com/rad.htmThis was the most intensive page on the radiation problem, and has the information to discredit the whole idea of the “fried astronaut.” With actual pictures of NASA documents with their radiation readings and the plans that NASA developed to maneuver through the radiation belts around the planet, Steve Troy gives very meticulous look at the whole radiation concern.