XXXXXXX 9PRE-xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx FOR XXXXXXXXXXXX A xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx a xxxxx of which we are xxxxxxx, we need to xxxxxx and be xxxxxxxxx with the  form of xxxxx xxxx to xxxxxx it meets with our xxxxxxxxxxxx as xxxxxxx.   This does not xxxxxx. Do we need this last xxxxxxxx? If not, can we xxxxxx?NOTE:	Where a xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx or a xxxxxxx xxxxxxx is to be xxxxxxxxx as xxxxxxx, and we are not a xxxxxxx, we do not xxxxxxx that we xxxxxx the xxxxx xxxx.  xxxxxxx, if the xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx that the xxxxx xxxx be xxxxxxxx to xxxxxx it meets the xxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx, we xxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxxxx to xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxx.In xxxxxxxxx to the xxxxxx of the xxxxx xxxx we need to fxxxt xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx the xxxxx meets the xxxxxxxxxx of xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx or a xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx for xx xxx xxxxxxxx.1. xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxIn xxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxxx of a  xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx  is xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxx xxxxxxxx:1. xx xxxxxxx will make all the xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx;2.	The xx xxxxxx will have xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx over the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx.1.	xx xxxxxxx WILL MAKE ALL xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxThe xx xxxxxxxx will have the xxxxx xxxxx the xxxxx of the xxxxx xxxx to xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx all xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx.  “xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx” – The xx xxxxxxx must have xxxxxx xxxxxxx.  All xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx in xxxxxxx to the xxxxx must not be xxxxxxx to the xxxx xxxxx of a xxxxxxx xxxxxx.“xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx” – Have been xxxxx by the xxx xxxxxxxxxxx as xxxxxxxxx but not xxxxxxx to the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx:-(a) xxxxxxx and when to xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx or xxxxxx;(b) The xxxxxx of any xxxxxxxxxxxxx; (c) The xxxxxxxxx of a xxxxxxxxxxy; (d) xxxxxxx a xxxxxxx is xxxxxxxxx to xxxxxx or xxxxxxxxx; (e) xxxxxxx to xxxxxxxxx the xxxxx; (f) xxxxxxx to xxxxxxxxxx, xxxxxxxxx, or xxxxxxx xxxxxx of the xxxxx;(g) xxxxxxx to use on xxxxxx of the xxxxx or to xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxx the xxxxx; and (h)	xxxxxxx to xxxxxx, add, or xxxxxxx a xxxxxxx;2.	THE xx xxxxxx WILL HAVE xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx OF THE xxxxxThe xx xxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxx of the xxxxx xxxx will be xxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx xxxxxx they must xxxxx xxxx xxxxxxx xxx (“the xxxxxx xxx”).  xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx by xxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx will have to be xxxxxxx in the xxxxxx of the xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxxx xxx.xxxxxx note: -xxxxx xxxxxx be no xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx to xxxxxx the xxxxx for the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx or xxxxxx xxxxxx the xxxxxxx xxxxx of xxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx.xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxIn xxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxxx of xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx in mind we need to xxxxxx that the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx are xxxxxxx in the xxxxx xxxx.(a) The xxxxx will have at xxxxx two xxxxxxxx;(b) One xxxxxxx will be a xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx (“the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx);(c) With the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx will be one or more xx xxxxxxxx (“xx xxxxxxxx);(d) The xxxxx will be xxxxxxxxxxx;(e) The xxxxx will be a xxxxxxx xxxxx for xx xxx xxxxxxxx;(f) The xxxxx will have a xxxxxxxxx;(g) The xxxxxxxxx will be a xx xxxxxx;(h) The xxxxxx xxx of the xxxxx and the xxx of xxxxxxxxxxxxxx will be the xxx of the xxxx xxxxxxx.(i) The xxxxx of xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx will be xxxxxx xxxxxx for as long as xxxxx are xx xxxxxxxx, but the xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx.(j) Any of the xxxxxx, xxxxxxxxxx and xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx in the xxxxxxxx will be xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx in xxxxxxxxxx with the vote of any xx xxxxxxx xxxxx such xxxxxxx are xxxxxxxx.(k) A xx xxxxx has the xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx.(l) No xxxxxx xxxxx than a xx xxxxxx has the xxxxx to xxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx or xx xxxxxxxx.(m) xxxxx will be no xxxxxxxxx for the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx of xx xxxxxxxx in the xxxxx xxxx.(n) xxxxx will be no xxxxxxxxx in the xxxxx xxxx for the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx of xxxxx of xxxxxxxxxxxxxx nor the xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx.2.	xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxx x.x. xxx a xxxxx will be a xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxx the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx or xxxxxx.  xxxxx xxxxxx or xxxxxx xxxxxxx:• xxxxxxxxxxxy xxxxxxxx• xxxxxxx of xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx• xxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx• xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx.Also, the xxx will xxxxx a xxxxx as a xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxx it has a xxxxxxx xxxxxxx  a x.x. xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx and at xxxxx one x.x. xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxy.  xxxxx are xxxxx xxxxx of xxxxxxx xxxxx:-	xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx.  This xxxxx will have a non xx xxxxxxx, a non-xx xxxxxxxx or xxxxxxx as xxxxxxx and xx xxxxxxxxx or xxxxxxxx as xxxxxxxxxxxxx.-	xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx.  This xxxxx will have non xx xxxxxxx, a xx xxxxxxxx or xxxxxxx as xxxxxxx and can have a xxxxxxxxxxx of xx and non xx xxxxxxxxxxxxx.-	xxxxxxx Non-xxxxxxx xxxxx.  This xxxxx will have a non xx xxxxxxx, a xx xxxxxxxx or xxxxxxx as xxxxxxx and a xxxxxxxxxxx of xx and non-xx xxxxxxxxxxxxx.  The xxxxxxx does not xxxxxx any xxxxxxx over the xxxxxx in the xxxxx and the xxxxx xxxx will xxxxxxxxx xxxxx that the xxxxx is a non-xxxxxxx xxxxx for the xxxxxxxx of xx xxx xxxx.  The xxxxx and not the xxxxxxx is xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx to xxxxxx with x.x. xxx xxxxxxxxxxxx.3.xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx are xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx we as xxxxxxx xxxxxxx in xxxxx xxxxx of both xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx and xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx.xxxxxxxx of such xxxxxxx are xxxxxxxxx in our xxxxxxxx form xxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxx, (xxxxxxxx/xxxxxxxx.8) for xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx and our xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxx, (xxxxxxxx/…)xxxxxxxxx in Annexure A.  xxxxx xxxxxxx are as xxxxxxx:• xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx for the xxxxxxxxxx of  a xxxxxxx.• xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxx to its own xxxxxx xxxxx.• The duty of care of the xxxxxxx is xxxxxxx from the xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxx the xxx.  xxxxxxx 19A(1) of the xxx “…xxxxx that a xxxxxxx xxxxxx of xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx in xxxxxxxx the xxxxxxx of xxxxxx.”• xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx to xxxxxx in xxxxxxxxx/xxxxxxxxxxxx/unit xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx. • xxxxx to xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx, xxxxx and xxxxx xxxxxxxx. • xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx that xxxxx is no xxxxxxxxxx on the xxxxxxx to xxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxxxxxx’ xxxxxxxxxxxxx.• xxxxx to xxxxxx. .• xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx. • The xxxxxx xxx as xxxxx that of the xxxx xxxxxxx. This xxxxxx is not xxxxxxxxxx for xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx• xxxxx to pay xxxxxx and xxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx by the xxxxx.• xxxxxxx may take a xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx.• xxxxx to xxxxx the xxxxx xxxx.• xxxxx to open xxxxxxxx. 4.	xxxxxx to xxxxxxxx	When xxxxxxxxx the xxxxx xxxx for a xxxxx of xxxxx we are xxxxxxx we xxxxxx bear in mind the xxxxxxxxx:xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx the xxx no xxxxxx xxxxxxxx that a xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx be xxxxxx, xxxxxxx xxxxxx be xxxxxxxxxx to use a xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx the xxxxxx xxx rule.  The xxxxxx xxx rule is that a xxxxx can not be made to last xxxxxxxxxxy.  The xxxxx must have a xxxxxxx xxxxxx of xxxxxxxxx.This will xxxxxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxx is xxxxx to xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx may not xxxxxxx a xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx of the rule xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx We xxxxxx also xxxxxx that the xxxxxxx does not have a xxxxxxxxxx to xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx the expiry of the xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx. Be xxxxxxx of xxxxxx xxxxxxx, xxxxxxxxxy in xxxxxxxx to a xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx.  All xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx are to be xxxxx xxxxxx the xxxxxxxx time xxxxxx and xxxxx to the expiry of the xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx.  xxxxx  xxxxx is a xxxxxx of xxxxxxx xxxxxxx the xxxxxx due to the xxxxxx xxxxxx that has to be xxxxx, the xxxxx xxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxx for a set xxxxxxxxxxxx in the xxxxx no xxxxxxxxxxxxx is made at the expiry of the xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx.  xxxxxxxxxxx on xxxx xxxxxxxxWhen xxxxxxx an xxxxxxx for a xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx we must at xxxxx be co-xxxxxxxxxxx (xxxxxxx xxxxxxx with the xxxxx co-xxxxxxxxx) to any xxxxxxx xxxxxx by the xxxxxxx on xxxxxx of the xxxxx.  Note xxxxxxx that a xxxxxxxxxx to xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxx be xxxxxxxxx to xxxxxx except a co-xxxxxxx.  Some xxxxx xxxxx will try to xxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxxxx on xxxxxxxx to just our own xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx or to xxxxxxx xxxxx than xxxxxxxxx.  Be xxxxx of xxxxx xxxxxxx and xxxxx out to the xxxxxx that our xxxxxx is such that we must at xxxxx be co-xxxxxxxxxxx to any xxxxxxx xxxxxx by the xxxxx.xxxxxxxxx it will be the xx xxxxxxxx who will open and xxxxxx the xxxxxxxx of xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx.  If we open an xxxxxxx in our xxxxxxxx as xxxxxxx for a xx xxxxxxxx we must xxxxxx in the same xxxxxx for xxxxxxx xxxxxxxx for xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx.xxxxxxxxxx for xxxxxxx of xxxx xxxxxxxx are xxxxxxxxx xxxxx at xxxxxxx 6 xxxxxxxxx 3 of this xxxxxxxx. [DMS xxxxxxxxx]xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxWe xxxxxxx the xxxxxxx's xxxxxxxxx to be xxxxxxx to xxxxxx xxxxx.  xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx and xxxxxxxxxxx  xxxxxxx by the xxxxxxx.  We will not xxxxxx any xxxxx xxxxxxxxx of xxxxx or any xxxxx xxxxx of xxxxx of xxxxxxxxx such as “xxxxxxxxxx”.  This is xxxxxxx the xxxxxx of our role as xxxxxxx is such that at xxxxxx all xxxxx we are xxxxxxxx to take a xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx role in the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx xxxxxx.  We must xxxxx the xxxxx xxxx xxxxxxxxxx to xxxxxx it xxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx us xxxxx we xxxxxx xxxxxxx a xxxxxxxxxxx or xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx and we do not have day to day xxxxxxx over that xxxxxx.  The xxxxxx of such xxxxxxxxxx is xxxxxxx as it is not xxxxxxx how xx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx such xxxxxxxxxx and xxxx xxxxxxx xxx.The xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx be as xxxxx as xxxxxxxx and xxxxx xxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxx.  We xxxxxx xxxxxxxxx to use the xxxxxxxx xxxxxx in our xxxxxxxx form xxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxx (xx/xxxxxxxx/xxxxxxxx.8) in its xxxxxxxx.xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx and xxxxxxxxxx Use of xxxxxxx xxxxxWe must xxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx in the xxxxx xxxx so that they do not xxxxxxx and xxxxxxxxxx.  It is xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx to in the index of the xxxxx xxxx, to xxxxxx they are xxxxxxx.  xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxx xxxxx to xxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx be xxxxxxx.  xxxxxx xxxxxx when xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx that the xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx that we are not xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx and not in the xxxxxxxx of xxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx.  Our xxxxxx is only xxxxx xxxxxxxxx to xxxxxxx our xxxxxxxxxxxx as xxxxxxx in the xxxx xxxxxxx. We can also xxxxx to the xxxxxx that if they wish to xxxxxx a xxxxx xxxxxxx in xxxxxxx of the xxxxx xxxx and its xxxxxxxxxxxxy to xxxx xxxxxxx’ xxx we are able to xxxxx them to a xxxx xxxxxxx’ xxxxxx who will xxxxxxx such an xxxxxxx.xxxxx to xxxxxx xxxxxxWe xxxxxx xxxxxx that xxxxx is a xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx us to xxxxxx xxxxxx and xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx and that xxxxxx does not make us xxxxxxxxxxx for the xxxxxxx of such xxxxxx and xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx than in xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxx or xxxxxxxx is xxxxxxxx by the xxxxxxx with xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx.  We xxxxxx also xxxxxx that the xxxs and xxxxxxxx of the xxxxxx are met out of the xxxxx Fund.xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx	The xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx must be on xxxxx xxxxxxxxxx to us.  The xxxxxxx xxxxxx be xxxxxxx to use xxxxx xxxxx to xxxxxx the xxxxxxx’s xxxs.  This  xxxxxx xxxxxx not be xxxxxxx to the xxxxxxx of the xxxxxxxxx or any xxxxx xxxxx of xxxx.xxxxxxxx xxxxxxIt is more than xxxxxx that a xxxxxxx will be xxxxx as an xxxxxxxx xxxxxx.  The xxxxxxxxxx with this is that this may xxxxxxxx xxxxxx the xxxxxxx of the xxxxxxx to xxxxxxx xxxs, xxxxxxxx and xxxxx xxxxxxxx to an xxxxxxxxx.  If the xxxxxxx is xxxxx as an xxxxxxxx xxxxxx, xxxxx xxxxxx be a xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxxx of xxxs and the xxxxxxx to xxxxx xxxxx an xxxxxxxxx.xxxxxxxx of CareWe must xxxxxx that our xxxxxxxxxx of xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx is xxxxxxxxxx with our xxxxxxxx of care, xxxxx is “good xxxxx and xxxxxxx”.  It is xxxxxxxxxx that our xxxxxxxx form xxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxx is used in its xxxxxxxx in all our xxxxxx.  xxxxx to the xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx in xx/xxxxxxxx.xx and xx/xxxxxxxx.8.xxxxxx of xxxxThe xxxxxxxxx are xxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx we as xxxxxxx do not xxxxx the xxxxxxxxx(s) to have a xxxxx of xxxx over:• xxxxx to xxxxxx xxxxxx• xxxxx to pay xxxxxx and xxxxx• xxxxx to take xxxxx xxxxxx• xxxxx to give xxxxxxxxxxx• xxxxx to xxx by xxxxxx xxxxxxxx• xxxxx to xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx, xxxxxxxxxxxx or xxxxxxxxx• xxxxxxx of a xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxWe will xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx as xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx.  Our xxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxxxxxx as a xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx is xxxxx on the same xxxxx and xxxxxxxxxx as when we xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx as a xxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxx. NOTE:	5. xxxxxx to xxxxxxxx for xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx not be xxxxxxxx in the xxxxx of the xxxxx xxxx. An xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxx that a xxxxx will xxxxxxxxxxxxy “xxxxxxx” from the xx upon a xx xxxxx’s xxxxxxx to xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx “or xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx xxxxxxxx or xxxxxxxxxx”.  Such a xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxy mean the xxxxx xxxxx no xxxxxx be xxxxxxx as a xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx.xxxxxxxxx as xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx be no xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx to xxxxxx the xxxxx for the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx or xxxxxx xxxxxx the xxxxxxx xxxxx of xxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx.  We xxxxx also xxxxxx that the xxxxxxxx have only a xxxxxxxxxxxxy xxxxx to xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx from a xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx to an “xxxxx of xxxxxx”, as xxxxxxx to such xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxxx.Our xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxx will xxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx with xxxxxx a xxxxxxxxxxxxy xxxxx to xxxxxx the xx xxxxxxx.The xxxxxxxxxAs xxxxxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx will be a xx xxxxxx.  The xxxxxxxxx will xxxxxxxx to be a xx xxxxxx for so long as the xxxxx xxxxxxx to xxxxxxxx its xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx.We xxxxx xxxxxx that the xxxxxxxxx be xxxxx a xxxxxxx xxxxx to xxxxxxx any one of the xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx the xx xxxxxxxx upon the xxxxxxxxxx of an xxxxx of xxxxxx.  We xxxxx xxxxxx such xxxxx is not xxxxx to the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx.  (xxxxx xxxxxx only be a mere xxxxxxxxxxxxy xxxxx to xxxxxx the xx xxxxxxxx as xxxxxxx to an xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx in an “xxxxx of xxxxxx”.)The xxxxxxxxx will be xxxxxxxx to xxxxxx at any time with the xxxxx to xxxxxxx a xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx.If the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx a xxxxxxxxx, then the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx.The xxxxxxxxx xxxxx be xxxxxxxx to xxxxxxxx or xxxxxxx any xxxxx xxxxxxxxx on the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx to the xxxxx xxxx.  NOTE: We xxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxx the xxxxxxxx of this xxxxx.  A xxxxx may be xxxxxxxx a “xxxxxxx xxxxx” by the xxxxxxxxx or xxxxxxxxx of xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx.The xxxxxxxxx xxxxx not be xxxxxxxxxx to xxxxxxxx his xxxxxx so as to xxxxxxxx or xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx a xxxxxxx on an xxxxxxxx xxxxxx.  An xxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxx and of the xxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx.xxxxxx of xxxxxxUpon an xxxxx of xxxxxx xxxxxxxxx in a xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx, we will xxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxx to xxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx out of that xxxxxxxxxxxx.  Such xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx are not xxxxxxxxx.  We xxxxx xxxxxx that such xxxxxx are xxxxxxxxxxxxy.xxxxx will an xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx if an xxxxx of xxxxxx xxxxxx in the xxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx is xxxxxxx.  xxxxxxx, the same xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx will not xxxxx to xxxxxx the xx xxxxxxx or the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx if the xxxxx of xxxxxx xxxxxx in the xxxxxx xxxxxx.6.	xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx we xxxxxxx with xxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx we xxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx from the xxxxxxx:• xxxxxxxxx of xxxxxxxx (xx\xxxxxxxx\xxxxxx.us for x.x. xxxxxxx, xxxxxx.asi for xxxxx xxxxxxx and xxxxxxxx.xx for xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx).• xxxx of xxxxxxxxx (xx\xxxxxxxx\xxxxxxxx.5) for xx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx;• xxxx of xxxxxxx and xxxxxxxxx (xx\xxxxxxxx\….) for xx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx.• A xxxxxx of xxxxxx is xxxxxxxx xxxxx we xxx as a xxxxxxx of a xxxxxxxxxxxxy xxxxx (xx\xxxxxxxx\xxxxxx.let).• xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx Form (xx\xxxxxxxx\xxxxx Info 16.06.98)xxxxxxxx xxxxx of the xxxxx xxxxxxxxx are xxxxxxxxx in Annexure A xxxxxx.      • As well as xxxxxx xxxxxx been a xxxxxxxxxxx of xxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx of xxxxxxxx is xxxxxxxx, xxxxxxxx to the xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx (Due xxxxxxxxx) xxxxxxxxxxx 1996, xxxxxx we can xxxxxxx with xxxxxxxxxxxx.  The xxxxxxxxx must xxxxxxx show that the xxxxxxx will be xxxxxxx upon xxxxxxxxxxxx the xxxxx.  xxxxxxxxxxxy xxxxxxxx of xxxxxxxx must also be xxxxxxxx upon each xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx of xxxxxx to the xxxxx.   xxxxxxxx A of the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx us in xxxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxx.  xxxxxx one asks that all xxxxxx of the xxxxxxx be xxxxxx.  The xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx ask for the xxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxx, xxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxx and an xxxxxxxxxx of xxxxx xxxxxx will be xxxxxxxxxxx to the xxxxx.  If the xxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx is an xxxxxxxx in a xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx (“xxx”) or xxxxx in a xxxxxxx, then we need xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxxx of the xxx or xxxxxxx xxxxx with xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx (if any) as well as xxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxxx of the xxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx.As xxxxxxx we will only xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx by an xxxxxxx xxxxx in the xxxxxx xxxxxxxx of the xxxx of xxxxxxxxx.  It is xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx that the xxxxxx xxxxxxxx is xxxxxxxxx and xxxxxxxx all xxxxxxx with whom we may xxxxxxxxxxx with.  It is xxxxxxxxx to xxxxxxxx that as xxxxxxx we only xxxxxxx xxxxxx or xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx, xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx.• In xxxxxxx of a xx xxxxxxxx xxxxx the xxxxxxx and all the xxxxxxxxxxxxx of the xxxxx will xxxxxxx a xxxx of xxxxxxx and xxxxxxxxx to the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx.  xxxxxxxxxxy the xxxx xxxxxxxx that they will not xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx us in a xx xxxxx and they xxxxxxxxx us xxxxxxx any loss xxxxxxxxx in xxxxxxxxxxx in a xx xxxxx, xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx xxxxxxxx to non-xxxxxxxxxx with xx xxx xxxx.• xxxxx we xxxxxxx a xxxxxx of xxxxxx we xxxxxx xxxxxx that the xxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxx is the xxxxxxx of the xxxxx, or a xxxxxx who has xxxxxxx xxxxxx on the xxxxx.  In this xxxxxxxxx we xxxxxx xxxxxxxxx xxxxxx that such a xxxxxxx is xxxxx in the xxxx of xxxxxxxxx as the xxxxxxxxx so that its xxxxx will be xxxxxxxxxx. • xxxxxxxxx from the xxxxx we must xxxxxx that xxxxxxxx we xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx in xxxxxxxx to the xxxxxxxxxxxxxx of a xxxxx we xxxxx to the xxxx of xxxxxxxxx to xxxxxx the xxxxxxxxxxxxxxx are xxxxxx from a xxxxx xxxxxx.4.	Due xxxxxxxxx xxxxx we are not xxxxxxxxxxxx we xxxxxxxx a xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx but xxxxxxxx does not xxxxxxx the xxxxxxx we xxxxx have due xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxxxx 4 of the xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx (Due xxxxxxxxx) xxxxxxxxxxx 1996.  xxxxxxx to xxxxxx may xxxxxx in xxxxxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxx 7 xxxxxx or have xxxxxxxxxxxx in xxxxxxx of our xxxxxxx xxxxxxx or xxxxxxxxxx.xxxxx xxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx us to be xxxxxxxxx on xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx that the xxxxxxx will be xxxxxxx upon xxxxxxxxxxxx the xxxxx xxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxxx of xxxxxx to the xxxxx at that time.  Also, we must be xxxxxxxxx upon xxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxx xxxxxx to the xxxxx that the xxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxx.The xxxxxxxxxx with xxxxxxx our xxxxxxxxxxx is that as we are not the xxxxxxx we may not be xxxxxxx of xxxxxxxxx to the xxxxx as they xxxxxx.xxxxxxxxxxy the xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxx xxxxxx be xxxxxxx:(a)	If we xxxxxxx all the xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx to the xxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx to xxx as xxxxxxx, then we need to xxxxxx that due xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxxxxx are met and xxxxxxxxx are xxxxxxxx by us as xxxxxxxxx.xxxxx to the xxxxx of the xxxxxx xxxxxxx xxxxxx, we need to make sure we have not xxxxxx a xxxxx of xxxxxxxx to any xxxxx xxxxx or xxxxxxxxx xxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxx to xxxxxx xxxxx xxxxxxxx.  If we have, then the xxxxxxxxx set out in (b) xxxxx xxxxxx be xxxxxxxx.(b)	If we are not the xxxxxxxxx of the xx xxxxxxx xxxxxx as xxxxxxx or as xxxxxxxxx we have xxxxxxxxx by xxxxx of xxxxxxxx or xxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxx to xxxxxx xxxxxxxxx to the xxxxx then: xxxxxxxxx 4 (i) xxxxxxx be xxxxxxx as I do not xxxxxxx it is xxxxxxxxx by xxxxxx.  I xxxxxxx that I have xxxxx xxxxxxxx this.  Why keep xxxxxxxxx we do not use.  If we are xxxxx to use it xxxxx to xxxxxxx to xxxxxxxx’s xxxxxxxxx, xxxxxxxxxx the xxxxxxx xxxxxx.