The Lifecycle of a Project: CDPMF The Project Manager’s Perspective Project Workflow –Overview iControl Project Management frame work is a logical my insert structure intended to provide a simplified, yet comprehensive [Ryan Lauc1]representation of a complex process that is independent of the tools and methods used in any particular situation, other than unforeseen catastrophes.  A. I Project Management Team Model - The Project Management Team Model defines the project management team structure and roles in electronic discovery projects.B. The Project Management Process Model - The Project Management Process Model defines a high level sequence of activities for managing electronic discovery projects. Rather than prescribing a specific series of procedures, it is flexible enough to accommodate a broad range of projects. A number of templates and recommended practices are provided to help project teams use the model successfully.Technical specification templates, examples, outlines and other tools are provided in this manual as a resource for the project manager regarding more specific aspects of the services provided by iControl.  When the overall framework avoids any components related to specific types of projects, processes or technologies, these resources are generally for a specific purpose.  These resources are updated and sometimes modified to be useful in a wide range of environments, however Project Managers [ 2]may have to adapt these resources for specific processes.Adding something here for tracked changesAdding something else for tracked changesProject Management Team ModelThe Project Management Team Model defines the project management team structure and roles for iControl projects.inserted from the Project Workflow Overview document.In the most general situation, iControl projects typically involve a corporation as well as one or more law firms. In the interest of simplicity, the model describes one instance for each of the three types of entities. Each entity has its own project manager and a set of internal teams involved in the project.There are numerous projects where multiple law firms or other entities may be involved. There are also projects of limited scope where one of the three entities may not be involved. The framework supports these projects as well.As seen in the diagram[ 3], each entity (corporation, law firm and iControl) includes a project management role. Note that this is a functional role. The person performing this role may not necessarily have a job title of project manager. Within the law firm, the project management role is usually played by a litigation support manager, paralegal or attorney. Within the corporation, someone from the legal department or IT typically takes on the role.It is important to explicitly identifying the project manager for each entity at the start of a project. If a team is to perform the project management function for an entity, it is important to designate a lead responsible for coordinating the team.The responsibilities of each project manager fall under two main categories:1. Management of project execution within their respective entities 2. Coordination with the other two entities in managing the overall project The inward looking role of the project manager is usually defined by their organization’s internal processes. However, it is important that this aspect of their role is consistent with their responsibility to the overall project. The project managers of all participating entities have a combined responsibility for the overall project success. Their coordinated performance as an integrated team is one of the fundamental principles of the iControl Project Management frameworkWithin the Integrated Project Management Team model, the iControl Project Management team will always take the lead role within projects that directly incorporate iControl resources.  The business relationship between iControl and specific clients is also likely to have a bearing on the dynamics of the team.  Independent of the organizational structure, a collaborative environment which fosters open communications is a key to success. The team must be able to rally behind common goals, create realistic plans, assess risks honestly, work with accurate status information and react to changes appropriately.iControl Project Management Process Model The model relies on the following key principles to maximize success.• Proactive and open communication • Alignment of all parties and resources to a common vision and goals • Comprehensive planning that spans the entire project • Preparing for and managing unknowns and changes • Coordinated performance of all resources involved • Ongoing project monitoring and course correction • Ongoing risk management The five steps of iControl Project ManagementThe process is divided into five distinct steps or phases. Each phase includes a series of activities that culminate in a milestone. Each phase also includes a set of deliverables that the project management team is responsible for producing.Risk Management, Change Management and Progress Monitoring are performed through the life of the project1. Initiation & Preliminary Planning PhaseThis is the first point in which Project Management will become involved.  Usually at this point, the Sales team should have a completed and approved Proposal and/or a Master Services Agreement (MSA) which should include complete pricing for all services offered by iControl.  Once the Sales team has a commitment from client regarding this specific project, that is the time that iControl Project Managers will become involved.  This will generally start with some form of Kick-off meeting in which Sales will basically pass the client and project over to Project Management and the Project Manager is given introductions and an opportunity to gather additional specific information (see questionnaires).1. Proposal – Sales2. MSA - Sales3. Pricing – Sales4. Kick-off - PM and Sales5. Set-up - PMDeliverables:Proposal and/or MSAKick-off OverviewAny other docs or info we need prior to taking over responsibility for project.2.  Scoping & Detailed Planning PhaseThe Scoping Phase lays the foundation for project success by aligning all teams to a common vision and goals. By defining the project scope and providing an overview of the context and constraints, this phase lays the foundation for project planning in the following phases.The main deliverable from the Scoping Phase is a Statement of Work that articulates the following:Scope of the project – Overall as known at the time.Scope of the project – Initial processing.  Majority of the time we will receive an initial set of data for processing and specifics for that data set need to be included in the Statement of Work.  Additional phases of work will have specific scope for that phase outlined in the Addendum.Time frame – Estimated CostsAssumptions and dependencies Context of the project within the overall matter Special considerations Success criteriaProject Charter – Outlines contacts, roles, responsibilities, etc..Billling InformationTerms and ConditionsBy openly communicating the scope, estimated costs and time frame for the project, all teams can work towards a common vision. Moreover, all teams are aligned towards success of the overall project and can set the right priorities and make the right tradeoffs along with realistic contingency planning and risk management.  It is also important that the required entities provide approval or sign-off on a Statement of Work so that iControl can ensure that all parties are in agreement and to manage the risk for iControl interests.Risk management begins during the Scoping Phase and continues through the life of the project.1. Data Intake - Data is received and logged into PMDB, assigned Media number and then copied to network location2. Client Details - Conference with client to finalize details and expections of client for existing data set.3. Analysis - Initial analysis is performed on Data to determine File types, File count and size.  Other analysis performed on Image loads and Hard Copy.4. SOW - Project doc outlining the Scope, Estimated costs and timeframe for initial phase.      Scoping Deliverables:      Statement of Work3. Startup Phase – Initial processingDuring the Startup Phase, project workflows and technology are setup and tested, User training is conducted and project assumptions are validated. Sample data exchanges are done and any piloting is completed during this phase as well.Planning and managing the startup phase explicitly highlights any potential gaps in the plan early in the process when issues are easier to address. The Quality Plan should address the types of testing and validation to be performed as part of the Startup PhaseChanges to the Detailed Project Plan may be required based on the findings. Change management begins at this phase.1. Approval - Must have approval of SOW/Addendum prior to proceeding2. Specs - Specifications for Processes and services provided.3. Scheduling - Confirming that we have resources available to complete phase by given deadline.  This takes into account all existing work in processes.4. DB Setup - If hosted project, then DB needs to be set up with specific fields, workflows, templates, users, rights, etc…5. Training - Training of new users6. User Set up - Set up of users for specific database for either IE, TS or both.  This should also indicate specific rights each user should have.      Start up DeliverablesTechnology implemented Workflow Implemented Data exchanges verified Users trained Startup test results reviewed and necessary fixes put in placeCulling and Keyword filtering tested 4. Execution PhaseThe project gets executed during the Execution Phase. The project management team is focused on ensuring that the project is being executed per plan and making adjustments as necessary during this phase.  For purposes of this manual, we will only be addressing 4 of the stages from the EDRM Reference Model (Processing, Review, Analysis and Production).** Processinga) Assessmentb) Preparationc) Selectiond) Output** Reviewa) Scopeb) Planc) Establishd) Executee) Wrap-up** Analysisa) Content Analyticsb) Reviewer Analyticsc) Project Analyticsd) Case Analytics** Productiona) Requirementsb) Identificationc) Prepared) Deliverable1. Extract - Extracts files from containers (PST, NSF, ZIP),  extracts attachments or embedded files and extracts Metadata and Text.2. Inventory - Creates an overall file report for each individual file/document.3. Culling - Keyword or field filter, De-dupe, File exclusion (Type), etc…4. Exceptions - Identifies Encrypted, Corrupt or files that can not be processed.5. Conversion - Convert file types prior to export (HTML, image, etc..)6. Export/Migration - Export from processing engine and migrate to DB or create external deliverable.7. Deliverable - Conform format as requested by client.8. QA/QC - Ensure deliverable is as expected as indicated by Specs.9. Invoice - Finalize work and enter numbers for billing at end of month.The primary project management activities during this phase areSchedule/timeline management Quality management Change management Budget management Risk management Metrics tracking      Execution Deliverables:Project deliverables (data, forensic reports, exception logs, chain of custody forms, etc) Regular progress reports Metrics and statistics Change request and authorization forms Change logs 5. Closeout PhaseThe project is formally closed out during the Closeout Phase as per the Closeout Plan. Closeout includes archival and disposition of data, metrics summarization, project summarization, lessons learned activities and documentation archival.An explicit Closeout Plan helps ensure that the project is formally closed and data is properly archived and/or disposed.The closeout phase also provides an opportunity for the teams to memorialize the lessons learned from their experiences on the project towards future process improvement.1. Approval - Approval from client for costs and process of Archiving2. Export - Export data from database into requested format.3. Destruction - Destruction of all data as client requested (Return, forensic destruction, etc..)4. Deliverable - Provide exported data in format requested.5. Collateral - Return or destruction of all collateral received by client on this matter/project.6. Network Storage - Clean-up of data from network locations.7. Internal Close      Close-out Deliverables:Data archived and/or disposed Metrics summary Project summary Lessons learned summary Documentation archivedRisk ManagementRisk management is an essential activity that has to be performed through the life of the project.Risks arise from uncertainty surrounding project parameters, external dependencies and results. Risks in electronic discovery projects arise from a number of common uncertainties:• The competing strategies of the litigants and court decisions • Evolving issues within the matter based on newly identified facts • Uncertainty regarding the scope of discovery • Uncertainty regarding the nature and volume of data • Uncertainty regarding scheduling of activities and resource contention with other projects • Uncertainties related to unexpected failures, errors and oversights Most risks have a negative impact on the project from a schedule, budget or quality perspective. Some risks such as loss of data can adversely affect the case in a very serious manner (adverse inferences, sanctions, etc). The outcomes of some uncertainties may have a positive impact. The failure to identify and leverage the positive is a type of risk as well.The goal of risk management is to minimizing the negative impacts associated with project risk while maximizing the positive impacts. Successful risk management is accomplished by:• Identifying risks as early as possible • Clearly defining the risk by specifying the following • The initiator or the event that would trigger the risk • The outcome if the risk came true • The probability of the risk (between 1% and 99%) • The relative impact of the risk (usually a number between 1 and 10) • The importance of the risk (probability times impact is a good measure of importance) • Ensuring that all members of the team have the same understanding of the risk • Developing a mitigation strategy. A mitigation strategy might include • Steps to reduce the probability of the risk coming true or the use of an alternative approach that does not pose the risk • Steps to clear up the uncertainty early (by conducting pilots or tests or by gathering additional information) • An explicit decision not to do anything since the probability and impact are not high enough to justify the cost of mitigation. • Developing a contingency plan. A contingency plan states what is to be done if the risk comes true. • Monitoring risks regularly and adjusting the risk parameters as new information becomes available • Assign an owner to the risk. The owner is responsible for implementing the mitigation strategy and monitoring the risk as the project evolves The premise of risk management is that change is to be expected as part of any project. As uncertainties play out either way, change occurs. Expecting change and proactively managing it provides teams the opportunity to plan and develop strategies to reduce the negative impact of change.Successful risk management is only possible with open communications. Open, honest discussion of project risk leads to more accurate appraisal of project status and better informed decision making both within the project management team and by external stake holders.Open communications is aided by a positive approach to risk management. Identifying and detailing risks is the first step to mitigating them. A long list of risks is not an indication of a project in trouble. It is the sign of a project being managed proactively.[Ryan Lauc1]Test comment[ 2]Who are the Project Managers?[ 3]What Diagram