 BLACKBOX SOLUTIONS LTD3 Spyrou LouiAyios Spyridonas 3051 Limassol CyprusTEL: 00357 25 384427 FAX: 00357 25 384596Company Registered No 101904RMA FORMRMA Number:${rma.number}Issue Date:${issue.date}System Serial Number:${serial.number}Member ID Number:${member.id}Warranty/Shipping Status:${warranty.date}User Name:${member.name}Customer Name:${customer.name}Customer Telephone No:${customer.phone}Customer Email:${customer.email}Customer Address:${customer.address}Description of goods required for return:Fault Description:${goods.description}${goods.value}${fault.description}Value of goods:		How to send back your hardware: Ensuring that the goods listed exactly as above are well wrapped, send the package via a courier of your choice or through the post office ensuring that the parcel requires a signature on receipt, to the following address: Blackbox Solutions Ltd, Costa Christoforou Court, 56 Makarios Ave, 3065 Limassol, Cyprus. Please ensure you include an invoice and delivery note, on headed paper if relevant, using the description of goods as above and the value as stated. The documentation must state that the goods are being returned for repair. The RMA number must be noted inside and outside of the package.Please note all items listed under the 'Description of goods required for return' section of the RMA form, need to be returned for testing. We can not process repairs until all items are received.Additional Information:  Please include with your hardware, a detailed breakdown of the problems you have been experiencing, that lead you to believe that the hardware is faulty quoting any error messages or pop ups that have appeared and details ofany previous correspondence that you have had with Blackbox Solutions staff regarding the problem.Progress ReportsFor interim progress reports, it is imperative that any questions you have are asked via the Support Forums or the private messaging facility available at www.blackbox-solutions.com/support.  Please quote your RMA number at all times.  No information can be supplied by telephone or any other method.The Repair Process Once your hardware has been received by us, typical turnaround times are 2 to 3 days, however this will depend on the nature of the problem and cannot be guaranteed.  Charges Providing that the goods are still under warranty, that they are actually defective, there is no evidence of abuse, wilful damage or tampering, your goods will be repaired and shipped back at no extra cost to yourself. However, if no fault is found with the hardware or it is determined that damage has occurred through operating error then costs could be incurred for parts, labour and shipping regardless of warranty status. You will also be liable for any non recoverable costs incurred through the courier. All charges must be paid before goods are re dispatched.   BLACKBOX SOLUTIONS LTD3 Spyrou LouiAyios Spyridonas 3051 Limassol CyprusTEL: 00357 25 384427 FAX: 00357 25 384596Company Registered No 101904The following is a summary of the costs relating to the return of equipment for repair under the RMA number as shown on the main page of the RMA.  1. No Fault Found Fee – 35 Euro excluding VAT and shipping costs.This charge is to cover the labour time spent extensively testing the equipment to find the reported fault.  We advise all customers to review the Terms and Conditions listed in the Downloads section of the line web shop regarding the No Fault Found Fee prior to sending equipment back.http://www.blackbox-solutions.com/download/index.htmlEvery effort will have been made by the Blackbox Solutions Support staff before such an RMA is issued to ensure that all avenues have been explored prior to sending equipment back and ultimately it is therefore the responsibility of the customer to utilise the RMA form to return the goods should they still feel that the fault lies with the supplied BBS hardware and not their own vehicle, laptop/PC or peripherals being used that have not been supplied by Blackbox Solutions Ltd.2.  General repairs – 40 Euro excluding VAT and Shipping costs where applicable.This covers all repairs where peripheral parts have been replaced and includes the labour charge for such repair work. Every Server unit, lead and/or peripherals undergo extensive testing after any such repair to ensure that the unit is in full working order before being shipped back to the customer.3.  In the unlikely event of a major issue with any of our equipment that does not fall into either of the above categories and there has been major component failure either by a defect or by customer abuse that requires more than peripheral parts to carry out such a repair, then we will inform the customer of expected costs for the parts and labour prior to any repair work being carried out. Customers will be asked to agree to the charges in writing prior to any repair work being carried out.